>> Zac: Let's do a quick
little recap on everything
amazing that we have learn today and
gone through.
Then we will send you out to the world to
build JavaScript stuff in WordPress and
be amazing at it.
Look at that y'all.
You learned all of this today.
Remember when we were
just starting off and
I told you that JavaScript has
a long history in WordPress.
It started out with like
300 lines in one file and
now it's 30% in like tens
of thousands of lines.
And they're considering whether
they should add React or View and
what they should do next.
We have a single page
web app as a customizer.
We're getting a single page web app
to override all of the edit pages and
all of the add new post pages.
And you are at the perfect time
to be fluent in JavaScript and
getting better, and know just enough
WordPress to do way more than
a lot of other people who have been
working with WordPress for awhile.
So, it's very cool the time that we're in.
And raise your hand if you feel like
you've at least learned how to enqueue
a JavaScript file.
Please everybody, please, right?
We know how to take our JavaScript, and
we know how to run it through PHP and
load it.
We know how to do it in a theme, we know
how to do it in a plugin, and guess what?
You could forget because you
have the code examples there.
So don't bother remembering,
enqueue is spelled E-N-Q-U-E-U-E
every time, weird word.
Unless you have I-N-G,
then the other E isn't there.
But that's the basic of it.
So you've gotta know that.
And then we looked a little bit at AJAX.
We did a jQuery example together.
You have an Axios example
to go over on your own.
And it's just a matter
of what you wanna use.
And there are times in WordPress, like our
Like thing, it would have taken us setting
up a custom API route, and accepting POST
requests in order to handle all that.
So in some cases, doing a little quick and
dirty AJAX within a theme or
a plugin, not completely frowned upon,
still okay.
But the direction we're moving
in is if we wanted to do that,
we would set up a custom endpoint where we
could get the total number of likes and
we can authenticate and
post in new likes at the same time.
So that's the direction
we're moving towards.
We looked at how to get posts, pages,
media, all that other stuff and
adding an ID to the end of it.
We looked at how we can pass arguments, so
we could do even more by filtering stuff
down and getting exactly what we want.
And then we looked at how to build
a enhanced theme using JavaScript.
And again, this is the place I would
suggest, I would not necessarily
suggest building a WordPress theme
in WordPress that has no PHP.
Because PHP can leverage a lot of things
that JavaScript still has a hard time
doing or you'd have to code a lot
of API functionality on your own.
So one of the best ways to start
implementing this is in little ways,
maybe a sexy footer.
Maybe a certain page on your site.
Maybe in the header somewhere.
One of the biggest places I've seen it
implemented first is with searches.
So when Airbnb got all its complicity for
rolling out React in production
very early on, what did they do?
Search, that was the first thing they hit,
because it makes sense to
make that interactive.
Some other people in the WordPress
space that are getting client work,
their stuff is completely
traditional PHP theme.
An then they're like,
we want this fancy search.
Let's use the API for that.
So piecemeal, adding it in and
enhancing it.
Now outside of WordPress,
build whatever the heck you want and
just use WordPress on the backend.
Now we showed how to edit and
how to save and
how to delete, but
you have to make a decision for yourself.
It may be way easier to build
a super slick front facing
read-only JavaScript app and
use WordPress for editing, right?
Then you don't have to
build the whole editor.
deal with authentication.
So if all your decoupled app is
doing is always receiving data and
you're never trying to send it back,
then they could just go into WordPress,
log into the admin area,
make the changes there and
then they're pushed to your site, and
you don't have to code any of that.
But, if you want to get really custom and
you wanna hide the fact that you're even
using WordPress as a data store or as
an application framework, you've got the
basic crud down and you can go from there.
Now, where do we go from here?
Because there aren't a ton
of resources at this point.
I did share with you a few projects.
I have my site JavaScript for WP.
There's some free content in the blogs
that I'm sharing out, projects and things.
I also have the show interviewing people
who are pioneers in developing this stuff
as well as projects.
And you can just from time to time
search REST API Project with WordPress,
things like that.
But we are at the cutting edge.
So the standards of how to approach things
the best way are still being developed.
And the opportunity to come into a lot
of these really prestigious WordPress
companies that really value
great work lifestyle and
pay you well and like,
like Human Made is one of them.
The guy who built
the WordPress REST API works there, and
some of their core contributors.
And what you find in a lot of
these bigger Wordpress agencies
is they're not just making money off of
it, they're actually contributing and
building back to the platform itself.
So, you may have not thought about a job
in the WordPress space as a JavaScript
developer, but let me tell you the
WordPress world would love to have you.
So the more you know about JavaScript,
the more you could enter into this.
And even if you don't get too far with
the community or working with it,
if you know that WordPress is a potential
backend application framework,
data store, CMS that you could do,
leave as it is and
then build your own JS either on top
of it or completely independently.
Then that is a huge win for you.
There are other ones.
Drupal is out there.
I'd say that's the main other one.
It has an API.
It tends to be a little bit more
developer-centric, the community.
And you don't see quite as
many people who are like,
yeah I'm gonna throw up a new site,
going to Drupal as much.
But it has an API and the stuff that you
learn today, you could apply to that.
There's gonna be slightly different
things like post.title.rendered
isn't exactly the same but
the skills that you have are pretty
versatile in terms of what you could do.